Chatbot is an automated system designed to initiate a conversation with human users or other chatbots.
Steps involved in the making of a chatbot :-
  (1) Natural Language Processing [NLP] layer : Maping the given input in natural language into useful representations and analysing the different aspects of the language.
  (2) Knowlege Base / CMS [Content Management System] : Chatbots provide real-time , personalized customer experiences , universal content accessibilty and personalization.It also enables to reach and retain customers.
  (3) Data Store : Data required to train the bot. Users's chat comes to the bot once it is deployed.

Layers of a Chatbot:-
  (1) Natural Language Processing : Part of computer science and artificial intelligence which deals with human languages.
                                  : Two main components of NLP - 
                                         (a) Natural Language Understanding [NLU] : Maping input to useful representations and analysing different aspects of the language.
                                         (b) Natural Language Generation [NLG]: Process of producing meaningful phrases and sentences in the form of natural language from someinternal representation.
                                                                              : NLG involves (1) Text Planning (2)Sentence Planning (3)Text Realization
  (2) Neural Networks : Type of machine learning which models itself after the human brain.
  (3) Deep Learning : Subset of machine learning where ANNs and algorithms inspired by the human brain learn from large amounts of data.
                    : Eliminates the need of domain expertise and hard core feature extraction.
  (4) TensorFlow : Google's Machine Learning Framework
                 : Open source library for numerical computations and large scale machine learning. Tensorflow bundles together a slew of machine learning and deep learning models and algorithms.

Workflow of a Chatbot :-
  (1) Determing the role of the bot.
  (2) Creating the conversational architecture.
  (3) Getting a variety of questions.
  (4) Pick a plattform and a development approach.
  (5) Implementation of the dialog flow and engineering the natural language understanding.
  (6) Internal testing and revising the use-case detection. Creation should be an iterative process. 
 
